#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\renewcommand\thesubsection{\thesection.\alph{subsection}}

\usepackage{graphicx}

\usepackage{tensind}
\tensordelimiter{?}

\usepackage{dsfont}

\DeclareMathOperator\cis{cis}
\DeclareMathOperator\Arg{Arg}
\DeclareMathOperator\Log{Log}
\DeclareMathOperator\sign{sign}
\DeclareMathOperator\Res{Res}
\DeclareMathOperator\tr{tr}
\DeclareMathOperator\sech{sech}
\DeclareMathOperator\csch{csch}
\DeclareMathOperator\arccosh{arccosh}
\DeclareMathOperator\arcsinh{arcsinh}


\def\dbar{{\mathchar'26\mkern-12mu d}}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 2
\use_package esint 2
\use_package mathdots 2
\use_package mathtools 2
\use_package mhchem 2
\use_package stackrel 2
\use_package stmaryrd 2
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Left Header
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

Ryan Low
\backslash

\backslash
PHSX 815
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Header
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

Determining Binary Separation
\backslash

\backslash
May 2021
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
texttt{PHSX815
\backslash
_Project4}:
\backslash

\backslash
Determining Binary Separation
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Ryan Low
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
May 2021
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the important problems in modern astronomy is the detection of a
 binary system.
 We will not be considering the process of detecting two objects in the
 field of view.
 Instead, given multiple images of a binary system taken at similar times,
 we would like to determine the separation distance between the two stars.
 By seeing how the separation distance changes in time, we can attempt to
 determine further orbital parameters, such as the total mass of the system,
 orbital period, and orbital inclination.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Problem Statement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Suppose a sequence of two-dimensional images with two sources on it.
 If the images are taken in a small period of time, then the source positions
 are fixed.
 However, because counting photons on the detector is a stochastic process,
 as well as atmospheric seeing, the apparent positions of the objects may
 vary over time.
 If we wish to determine the separation distance between two stars, this
 problem reduces to finding the most likely position of each individual
 star given the data, then determining the distance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We must have a model of how point sources appear on our detector.
 For this, we use the Airy disk (Equation 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:Airy"
plural "false"
caps "false"
noprefix "false"

\end_inset

).
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
I\left(x\right)=I_{0}\left(\frac{2J_{1}\left(x\right)}{2x}\right)^{2}\label{eq:Airy}
\end{equation}

\end_inset

In Equation 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:Airy"
plural "false"
caps "false"
noprefix "false"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 is proportional to the radial distance from the center of the disk and
 
\begin_inset Formula $J_{1}$
\end_inset

 is the Bessel function of the first kind.
 We will simulate each observation by taking samples from this distribution
 using fixed positions for the two sources.
 Using this simulated data, we will determine the positions of the sources
 and then calculate the separation distance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Algorithm Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
asdf
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\sqrt{\frac{\left(dx_{1}^{2}+dx_{2}^{2}\right)\left(x_{1}-x_{2}\right)^{2}+\left(dy_{1}^{2}+dy_{2}^{2}\right)\left(y_{1}-y_{2}\right)^{2}}{\left(x_{1}-x_{2}\right)^{2}+\left(y_{1}-y_{2}\right)^{2}}}
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
